"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

fix freeze command :h3
fix freeze/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID group-ID freeze :pre

ID, group-ID are documented in "fix"_fix.html command
freeze = style name of this fix command :ul

[Examples:]

fix 2 bottom freeze :pre

[Description:]

Zero out the force and torque on a granular particle.  This is useful
for preventing certain particles from moving in a simulation.  The
"granular pair styles"_pair_gran.html also detect if this fix has been
defined and compute interactions between frozen and non-frozen
particles appropriately, as if the frozen particle has infinite mass.
A similar functionality for normal (point) particles can be obtained
using "fix setforce"_fix_setforce.html.

:line

Styles with a {gpu}, {intel}, {kk}, {omp}, or {opt} suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Run_options.html when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
"suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

:line

[Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.  None of the "fix_modify"_fix_modify.html options
are relevant to this fix.

This fix computes a global 3-vector of forces, which can be accessed
by various "output commands"_Howto_output.html.  This is the total
force on the group of atoms before the forces on individual atoms are
changed by the fix.  The vector values calculated by this fix are
"extensive".

No parameter of this fix can be used with the {start/stop} keywords of
the "run"_run.html command.  This fix is not invoked during "energy
minimization"_minimize.html.

[Restrictions:]

This fix is part of the GRANULAR package.  It is only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

There can only be a single freeze fix defined.  This is because other
the "granular pair styles"_pair_gran.html treat frozen particles
differently and need to be able to reference a single group to which
this fix is applied.

[Related commands:]

"atom_style sphere"_atom_style.html, "fix setforce"_fix_setforce.html

[Default:] none
