"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

fix temp/berendsen command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID group-ID temp/berendsen Tstart Tstop Tdamp :pre

ID, group-ID are documented in "fix"_fix.html command :ulb,l
temp/berendsen = style name of this fix command :l
Tstart,Tstop = desired temperature at start/end of run :l
  Tstart can be a variable (see below) :pre
Tdamp = temperature damping parameter (time units) :l
:ule

[Examples:]

fix 1 all temp/berendsen 300.0 300.0 100.0 :pre

[Description:]

Reset the temperature of a group of atoms by using a Berendsen
thermostat "(Berendsen)"_#Berendsen2, which rescales their velocities
every timestep.

The thermostat is applied to only the translational degrees of freedom
for the particles, which is an important consideration for finite-size
particles which have rotational degrees of freedom are being
thermostatted with this fix.  The translational degrees of freedom can
also have a bias velocity removed from them before thermostatting
takes place; see the description below.

The desired temperature at each timestep is a ramped value during the
run from {Tstart} to {Tstop}.  The {Tdamp} parameter is specified in
time units and determines how rapidly the temperature is relaxed.  For
example, a value of 100.0 means to relax the temperature in a timespan
of (roughly) 100 time units (tau or fmsec or psec - see the
"units"_units.html command).

{Tstart} can be specified as an equal-style "variable"_variable.html.
In this case, the {Tstop} setting is ignored.  If the value is a
variable, it should be specified as v_name, where name is the variable
name.  In this case, the variable will be evaluated each timestep, and
its value used to determine the target temperature.

NOTE: This thermostat will generate an error if the current
temperature is zero at the end of a timestep.  It cannot rescale a
zero temperature.

Equal-style variables can specify formulas with various mathematical
functions, and include "thermo_style"_thermo_style.html command
keywords for the simulation box parameters and timestep and elapsed
time.  Thus it is easy to specify a time-dependent temperature.

NOTE: Unlike the "fix nvt"_fix_nh.html command which performs
Nose/Hoover thermostatting AND time integration, this fix does NOT
perform time integration.  It only modifies velocities to effect
thermostatting.  Thus you must use a separate time integration fix,
like "fix nve"_fix_nve.html to actually update the positions of atoms
using the modified velocities.  Likewise, this fix should not normally
be used on atoms that also have their temperature controlled by
another fix - e.g. by "fix nvt"_fix_nh.html or "fix
langevin"_fix_langevin.html commands.

See the "Howto thermostat"_Howto_thermostat.html doc page for a
discussion of different ways to compute temperature and perform
thermostatting.

This fix computes a temperature each timestep.  To do this, the fix
creates its own compute of style "temp", as if this command had been
issued:

compute fix-ID_temp group-ID temp :pre

See the "compute temp"_compute_temp.html command for details.  Note
that the ID of the new compute is the fix-ID + underscore + "temp",
and the group for the new compute is the same as the fix group.

Note that this is NOT the compute used by thermodynamic output (see
the "thermo_style"_thermo_style.html command) with ID = {thermo_temp}.
This means you can change the attributes of this fix's temperature
(e.g. its degrees-of-freedom) via the
"compute_modify"_compute_modify.html command or print this temperature
during thermodynamic output via the "thermo_style
custom"_thermo_style.html command using the appropriate compute-ID.
It also means that changing attributes of {thermo_temp} will have no
effect on this fix.

Like other fixes that perform thermostatting, this fix can be used
with "compute commands"_compute.html that calculate a temperature
after removing a "bias" from the atom velocities.  E.g. removing the
center-of-mass velocity from a group of atoms or only calculating
temperature on the x-component of velocity or only calculating
temperature for atoms in a geometric region.  This is not done by
default, but only if the "fix_modify"_fix_modify.html command is used
to assign a temperature compute to this fix that includes such a bias
term.  See the doc pages for individual "compute
commands"_compute.html to determine which ones include a bias.  In
this case, the thermostat works in the following manner: the current
temperature is calculated taking the bias into account, bias is
removed from each atom, thermostatting is performed on the remaining
thermal degrees of freedom, and the bias is added back in.

:line

[Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.

The "fix_modify"_fix_modify.html {temp} option is supported by this
fix.  You can use it to assign a temperature "compute"_compute.html
you have defined to this fix which will be used in its thermostatting
procedure, as described above.  For consistency, the group used by
this fix and by the compute should be the same.

The "fix_modify"_fix_modify.html {energy} option is supported by this
fix to add the energy change implied by a velocity rescaling to the
system's potential energy as part of "thermodynamic
output"_thermo_style.html.

This fix computes a global scalar which can be accessed by various
"output commands"_Howto_output.html.  The scalar is the cumulative
energy change due to this fix.  The scalar value calculated by this
fix is "extensive".

This fix can ramp its target temperature over multiple runs, using the
{start} and {stop} keywords of the "run"_run.html command.  See the
"run"_run.html command for details of how to do this.

This fix is not invoked during "energy minimization"_minimize.html.

[Restrictions:]

This fix can be used with dynamic groups as defined by the
"group"_group.html command.  Likewise it can be used with groups to
which atoms are added or deleted over time, e.g. a deposition
simulation.  However, the conservation properties of the thermostat
and barostat are defined for systems with a static set of atoms.  You
may observe odd behavior if the atoms in a group vary dramatically
over time or the atom count becomes very small.

[Related commands:]

"fix nve"_fix_nve.html, "fix nvt"_fix_nh.html, "fix
temp/rescale"_fix_temp_rescale.html, "fix langevin"_fix_langevin.html,
"fix_modify"_fix_modify.html, "compute temp"_compute_temp.html,
"fix press/berendsen"_fix_press_berendsen.html

[Default:] none

:line

:link(Berendsen2)

[(Berendsen)] Berendsen, Postma, van Gunsteren, DiNola, Haak, J Chem
Phys, 81, 3684 (1984).
