"Higher level section"_Install.html - "LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS
Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

Applying patches :h3

It is easy to stay current with the most recent LAMMPS patch releases
if you use Git or SVN to track LAMMPS development.  Instructions for
how to stay current are on the "Install git"_Install_git.html and
"Install svn"_Install_svn.html doc pages.

If you prefer to download a tarball, as described on the "Install
git"_Install_tarball.html doc page, you can stay current by
downloading "patch files" when new patch releases are made.  A link to
a patch file is posted on the "bug and feature
page"_http://lammps.sandia.gov/bug.html of the LAMMPS website, along
with a list of changed files and details about what is in the new patch
release.  This page explains how to apply the patch file to your local
LAMMPS directory.

NOTE: You should not apply patch files to a local Git or SVN repo of
LAMMPS, only to an unpacked tarball.  Use Git and SVN commands to
update repo versions of LAMMPS.

Here are the steps to apply a patch file.  Note that if your version
of LAMMPS is several patch releases behind, you need to apply all the
intervening patch files in succession to bring your version of LAMMPS
up to date.

Download the patch file.  You may have to shift-click in your browser
to download the file instead of display it.  Patch files have names
like patch.12Dec16. :ulb,l

Put the patch file in your top-level LAMMPS directory, where the
LICENSE and README files are. :l

Apply the patch by typing the following command from your top-level
LAMMPS directory, where the redirected file is the name of the patch
file. :l

patch -bp1 < patch.12Dec16 :pre

A list of updated files print out to the screen.  The -b switch
creates backup files of your originals (e.g. src/force.cpp.orig), so
you can manually undo the patch if something goes wrong. :l

Type the following from the src directory, to enforce consistency
between the src and package directories.  This is OK to do even if you
don't use one or more packages.  If you are applying several patches
successively, you only need to type this once at the end. The purge
command removes deprecated src files if any were removed by the patch
from package sub-directories. :l

make purge
make package-update :pre

Re-build LAMMPS via the "make" command. :l,ule

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you wish to edit/change a src file that is from a
package, you should edit the version of the file inside the package
sub-dir of src, then re-install the package.  The version in the src
dir is merely a copy and will be wiped out if you type "make
package-update".
