"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

pair_style multi/lucy/rx command :h3
pair_style multi/lucy/rx/kk command :h3

[Syntax:]

pair_style multi/lucy/rx style N keyword ... :pre

style = {lookup} or {linear} = method of interpolation
N = use N values in {lookup}, {linear} tables
weighting = fractional or molecular (optional) :ul

[Examples:]

pair_style multi/lucy/rx linear 1000
pair_style multi/lucy/rx linear 1000 fractional
pair_style multi/lucy/rx linear 1000 molecular
pair_coeff * * multibody.table ENTRY1 h2o h2o 7.0
pair_coeff * * multibody.table ENTRY1 h2o 1fluid 7.0 :pre

[Description:]

Style {multi/lucy/rx} is used in reaction DPD simulations, where the
coarse-grained (CG) particles are composed of {m} species whose
reaction rate kinetics are determined from a set of {n} reaction rate
equations through the "fix rx"_fix_rx.html command.  The species of
one CG particle can interact with a species in a neighboring CG
particle through a site-site interaction potential model.  Style
{multi/lucy/rx} computes the site-site density-dependent force
following from the many-body form described in "(Moore)"_#Moore2 and
"(Warren)"_#Warren2 as

:c,image(Eqs/pair_multi_lucy.jpg)

which consists of a density-dependent function, A(rho), and a
radial-dependent weight function, omegaDD(rij).  The radial-dependent
weight function, omegaDD(rij), is taken as the Lucy function:

:c,image(Eqs/pair_multi_lucy2.jpg)

The density-dependent energy for a given particle is given by:

:c,image(Eqs/pair_multi_lucy_energy.jpg)

See the supporting information of "(Brennan)"_#Brennan2 or the
publication by "(Moore)"_#Moore2 for more details on the functional
form.

An interpolation table is used to evaluate the density-dependent
energy (Integral(A(rho)drho) and force (A(rho)).  Note that the
pre-factor to the energy is computed after the interpolation, thus the
Integral(A(rho)drho will have units of energy / length^4.

The interpolation table is created as a pre-computation by fitting
cubic splines to the file values and interpolating the
density-dependent energy and force at each of {N} densities.  During a
simulation, the tables are used to interpolate the density-dependent
energy and force as needed for each pair of particles separated by a
distance {R}.  The interpolation is done in one of 2 styles: {lookup}
and {linear}.

For the {lookup} style, the density is used to find the nearest table
entry, which is the density-dependent energy and force.

For the {linear} style, the density is used to find the 2 surrounding
table values from which the density-dependent energy and force are
computed by linear interpolation.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms
types via the "pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html command as in the examples
above.

filename
keyword
species1
species2
cutoff (distance units) :ul

The filename specifies a file containing the tabulated
density-dependent energy and force.  The keyword specifies a section
of the file.  The cutoff is an optional coefficient.  If not
specified, the outer cutoff in the table itself (see below) will be
used to build an interpolation table that extend to the largest
tabulated distance.  If specified, only file values up to the cutoff
are used to create the interpolation table.  The format of this file
is described below.

The species tags define the site-site interaction potential between
two species contained within two different particles.  The species
tags must either correspond to the species defined in the reaction
kinetics files specified with the "fix rx"_fix_rx.html command or they
must correspond to the tag "1fluid", signifying interaction with a
product species mixture determined through a one-fluid approximation.
The interaction potential is weighted by the geometric average of
either the mole fraction concentrations or the number of molecules
associated with the interacting coarse-grained particles (see the
{fractional} or {molecular} weighting pair style options). The coarse-grained potential is
stored before and after the reaction kinetics solver is applied, where
the difference is defined to be the internal chemical energy (uChem).

:line

The format of a tabulated file is a series of one or more sections,
defined as follows (without the parenthesized comments):

# Density-dependent function (one or more comment or blank lines) :pre

DD-FUNCTION                (keyword is first text on line)
N 500 R 1.0 10.0           (N, R, RSQ parameters)
                           (blank)
1 1.0 25.5 102.34          (index, density, energy/r^4, force)
2 1.02 23.4 98.5
...
500 10.0 0.001 0.003 :pre

A section begins with a non-blank line whose 1st character is not a
"#"; blank lines or lines starting with "#" can be used as comments
between sections.  The first line begins with a keyword which
identifies the section.  The line can contain additional text, but the
initial text must match the argument specified in the pair_coeff
command.  The next line lists (in any order) one or more parameters
for the table.  Each parameter is a keyword followed by one or more
numeric values.

The parameter "N" is required and its value is the number of table
entries that follow.  Note that this may be different than the {N}
specified in the "pair_style multi/lucy/rx"_pair_multi_lucy_rx.html
command.  Let Ntable = {N} in the pair_style command, and Nfile = "N"
in the tabulated file.  What LAMMPS does is a preliminary
interpolation by creating splines using the Nfile tabulated values as
nodal points.  It uses these to interpolate the density-dependent
energy and force at Ntable different points.  The resulting tables of
length Ntable are then used as described above, when computing the
density-dependent energy and force.  This means that if you want the
interpolation tables of length Ntable to match exactly what is in the
tabulated file (with effectively no preliminary interpolation), you
should set Ntable = Nfile, and use the "RSQ" parameter.  This is
because the internal table abscissa is always RSQ (separation distance
squared), for efficient lookup.

All other parameters are optional.  If "R" or "RSQ" does not appear,
then the distances in each line of the table are used as-is to perform
spline interpolation.  In this case, the table values can be spaced in
{density} uniformly or however you wish to position table values in
regions of large gradients.

If used, the parameters "R" or "RSQ" are followed by 2 values {rlo}
and {rhi}.  If specified, the density associated with each
density-dependent energy and force value is computed from these 2
values (at high accuracy), rather than using the (low-accuracy) value
listed in each line of the table.  The density values in the table
file are ignored in this case.  For "R", distances uniformly spaced
between {rlo} and {rhi} are computed; for "RSQ", squared distances
uniformly spaced between {rlo*rlo} and {rhi*rhi} are computed.

NOTE: If you use "R" or "RSQ", the tabulated distance values in the
file are effectively ignored, and replaced by new values as described
in the previous paragraph.  If the density value in the table is not
very close to the new value (i.e. round-off difference), then you will
be assigning density-dependent energy and force values to a different
density, which is probably not what you want.  LAMMPS will warn if
this is occurring.

Following a blank line, the next N lines list the tabulated values.
On each line, the 1st value is the index from 1 to N, the 2nd value is
r (in density units), the 3rd value is the density-dependent function
value (in energy units / length^4), and the 4th is the force (in force
units).  The density values must increase from one line to the next.

Note that one file can contain many sections, each with a tabulated
potential.  LAMMPS reads the file section by section until it finds
one that matches the specified keyword.

:line

[Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info]:

This pair style does not support mixing.  Thus, coefficients for all
I,J pairs must be specified explicitly.

The "pair_modify"_pair_modify.html shift, table, and tail options are
not relevant for this pair style.

This pair style writes the settings for the "pair_style multi/lucy/rx" command
to "binary restart files"_restart.html, so a pair_style command does
not need to specified in an input script that reads a restart file.
However, the coefficient information is not stored in the restart
file, since it is tabulated in the potential files.  Thus, pair_coeff
commands do need to be specified in the restart input script.

This pair style can only be used via the {pair} keyword of the
"run_style respa"_run_style.html command.  It does not support the
{inner}, {middle}, {outer} keywords.

:line

Styles with a {gpu}, {intel}, {kk}, {omp}, or {opt} suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the "-suffix command-line
switch"_Run_options.html when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
"suffix"_suffix.html command in your input script.

See the "Speed packages"_Speed_packages.html doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

:line

[Restrictions:]

This command is part of the USER-DPD package.  It is only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

[Related commands:]

"pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html

[Default:] fractional weighting

:line

:link(Warren2)
[(Warren)] Warren, Phys Rev E, 68, 066702 (2003).

:link(Brennan2)
[(Brennan)] Brennan, J Chem Phys Lett, 5, 2144-2149 (2014).

:link(Moore2)
[(Moore)] Moore, J Chem Phys, 144, 104501 (2016).

