"LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Commands_all.html)

:line

pair_style smd/tlsph command :h3

[Syntax:]

pair_style smd/tlsph args :pre

[Examples:]

pair_style smd/tlsph

[Description:]

The {smd/tlsph} style computes particle interactions according to
continuum mechanics constitutive laws and a Total-Lagrangian
Smooth-Particle Hydrodynamics algorithm.

This pair style is invoked with the following command:

pair_style smd/tlsph
pair_coeff i j *COMMON rho0 E nu Q1 Q2 hg Cp &
               *END :pre

Here, {i} and {j} denote the {LAMMPS} particle types for which this
pair style is defined. Note that {i} and {j} must be equal, i.e., no
{tlsph} cross interactions between different particle types are
allowed.  In contrast to the usual {LAMMPS} {pair coeff} definitions,
which are given solely a number of floats and integers, the {tlsph}
{pair coeff} definition is organized using keywords. These keywords
mark the beginning of different sets of parameters for particle
properties, material constitutive models, and damage models. The {pair
coeff} line must be terminated with the {*END} keyword. The use the
line continuation operator {&} is recommended. A typical invocation of
the {tlsph} for a solid body would consist of an equation of state for
computing the pressure (the diagonal components of the stress tensor),
and a material model to compute shear stresses (the off-diagonal
components of the stress tensor). Damage and failure models can also
be added.

Please see the "SMD user guide"_PDF/SMD_LAMMPS_userguide.pdf for a
complete listing of the possible keywords and material models.

:line

[Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info]:

No mixing is performed automatically.  Currently, no part of USER-SMD
supports restarting nor minimization.  rRESPA does not apply to this
pair style.

:line

[Restrictions:]

This fix is part of the USER-SMD package.  It is only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the "Build
package"_Build_package.html doc page for more info.

[Related commands:]

"pair_coeff"_pair_coeff.html

[Default:] none

:line

